2026年1-4月雅思口语神奇题库
Part 1

Work

What’s your job?
How do you usually spend your day at work?
What technology do you use in your work?
What would help you to work better?
Have you found anything interesting in your work recently?
What do you dislike most about working?

Study

What do you study?
How do you spend a day of study?
What technology do you use in your study?
What would help you to study better?
Have you learned anything interesting recently in your studies?
What do you dislike most about studying?

Where you live

Which city do you live in now?
Is this an interesting place to live?
Do you think you will live in this place in the future?
Where do you live, in an apartment or a house?
How long have you lived in your area now?
What do you like about the area you’re living in?
What part of your room do you like the most?

Food (New)

What kind of food did you like when you were a child?
What kind of food do you like when you grow up?
Do you eat different kinds of food at different times of the year?
Do you like to eat with others?

Pets and animals (New)

Would you like to have pets in the future?
What is the most popular animal in China?
Have you ever had a pet before?
Where do you prefer to keep your pet, indoors or outdoors?

Typing (New)

Do you prefer typing or writing things by hand?
When did you learn how to type on a keyboard?
Do you type on a desktop or a laptop keyboard every day?
How can you improve your typing skills?

Stage of life (New)

What did you enjoy most about your childhood?
What’s the best thing about being the age you are now?
What do you want to do five years later?
How can people remember all the different stages in their lives?
At what age do you believe people are the happiest?

Long walk (New)

Did you go to a faraway place when you were a child?
Did you often walk outside when you were a child?
Where would you want to go for a long walk if you have a chance?
Are there many parks near where you live?
Do people like to take walks in the parks? Why?

Carefully Reading (New)

When will you read carefully?
When won't you read carefully?
Do you prefer careful reading or fast reading?
In your native language, which articles need to be read carefully?
Why do some people like fast reading?

Morning times (New)

Do you get up early in the morning?
What do you do when you get up in the morning?
Did you get up early in the morning when you were a child?
Which morning of the week do you like best?


Gift (New)

What kind of gift do you like to receive?
What kind of gift would you buy for your friends?
Have you received any gifts recently?
Do you prefer buying gift online or offline?

Team sport (New)

Have you been part of a sport team?
Is this sport you play popular in your country?
Is your sport team famous?
Do you think you will join another team sport in the future?
Do you enjoy team sport or individual sports?

Building (New)

What is the tallest building in your city?
Do you usually take photos of buildings?
What kind of buildings do you like?
Is there any building you really want to visit?

Travelling (New)

Did you ever travel to a faraway place when you were a child?
When you travel by bus or car, do you like looking out of the window at the scenery?
Do you often take photos of the scenery outside the car window?
Do you prefer the mountains or the sea?

Free time activity (New)

Do you have any hobbies?/ What do you like to do in your free time now?
Did you have any hobbies when you were a child?/ What did you like to do in your free time when you were a child?
Do you prefer doing these activities with other people or on your own?
Is there any activity you would like to try in the future?
Do you have the same hobbies as your family members?
Have your hobbies changed since you were younger?

Memory (New)
Do you think you have a good memory?
Do you think it is difficult to memorise names?
Have you ever forgotten something that was important?
Do you want to have a good memory?
Do you think having a good memory will be important in your future job or studies?




Museum

How often did you visit museums when you were a child?
Would you ever visit a museum with your friends?
Is there a museum that you would like to visit in the future?
Do you think there should be more museums in your country?

Happy things

What kinds of things make you feel happy?
Have you ever shared photos of your happy moments online?
Do you prefer watching happy or sad movies?
Who do you tell first when you receive good news?

Shoes

Do you like buying shoes? How often? 
Do you prefer shoes that are comfortable, or shoes that look nice? 
Do you usually buy shoes online or from a shop? 
Would you ever buy shoes just because the company that makes them is famous? 
Do you have a favourite pair of shoes?

Rules

When you were a child, did your school have a lot of rules?
Did you have any teachers who were strict about the school rules?
Do you think schools should have more or fewer rules?
Would you like to be a teacher at a school where there are no rules?

Fruit and vegetable

Is it easy to grow fruit and vegetables where you live now? 
Do you enjoy growing fruit and vegetables? 
Did you learn about growing fruit and vegetables at school? 
Would you ever watch TV shows about growing fruit and vegetables?

Spending time with elders

Do you work or study with people who are older than you?
Do you enjoy spending time with people who are older than you?
Have you talked to someone much older than you recently?
What are you looking forward to about being older?

Public places

Do you enjoy spending time in public places? 
Would you ever talk to a person you don't know in a public place? 
Do you ever wear headphones to listen to music when you're in a public place? 
Do you think there should be more public places where you live?

Crowded place

What places in your city are always crowded? 
How do you feel when you're in a crowded place? 
When was the last time you enjoyed being in a crowd of people? 
Would you like to live somewhere where there are only a few people?

Advertisement

Do you see many advertisements on your phone or computer? 
Do you usually remember the advertisements that you see? 
Have you ever bought something because you saw an advertisement for it? 
Do you think there will be more advertisements everywhere in the future?

Borrow

Have you ever borrowed a book from a friend?
Do you mind if someone asks to borrow something from you?
Do you think it’s all right to borrow money from friends?
Would you let someone borrow your phone?

---
Break

Do you often take short breaks when you’re working or studying?
What do you usually do when you take a break?
Have you ever had a short sleep when taking a break?
How do you feel after taking a break?

Conversation

What type of things do you talk about with your friends?
Do you prefer to talk to people on the phone or to meet them face-to-face?
Have you had a long conversation with someone recently?
Do you think some people talk too much?

Things you take

Do you always take your phone with you, when you go out?
How often do you take cash with you, when you go out?
Would you ever take food with you, when you go out?
Have you ever forgotten to take something important with you, when you went out?


[[part1对应笔记]]

---

Part 2 and Part3


新题

【1】为家人骄傲 (Proud of a family member)
Part 2 Describe a time when you felt very proud of something a family member did. You should say:
    • When it was
    • Who the family member was
    • What he/she did
    • And explain why you felt so proud of what your family member did. 
Part 3
    • When would parents feel proud of their children? 
    • Should parents reward children? Why and how? 
    • Is it good to reward children too often? Why? 
    • On what occasions would adults be proud of themselves? 
    • Is it possible for people in any kind of job to feel proud of their work? 
    • Are people proud of different things today than in the past? 

【2】禁用手机的场合 (Time not allowed to use mobile phone)
Part 2 Describe a time when you were not allowed to use your mobile phone. You should say:
    • When it was
    • Where it was
    • Why you were not allowed to use your mobile phone
    • And explain how you feel about the whole experience. 
Part 3
    • Why do young and old people use mobile phones differently? 
    • What can the mobile phone be used for? 
    • What is the most useful function on mobile phone for people of different ages? 
    • Why does the younger generation spend much longer time on mobile phones than the elderly? 
    • Is it a waste of time to take pictures with mobile phones? 
    • Is it quite prevalent that people are addicted to mobile phones? 

【3】完美的工作 (Perfect job)
Part 2 Describe a perfect job you would like to have in the future. You should say:
    • What it is
    • How you knew it
    • What it is like
    • And explain why you think it is perfect. 
Part 3
    • What kind of job do children usually think they want to do in the future? 
    • What are the dream jobs of people in your country? 
    • Will people's ideal jobs change when they grow up? 
    • Why do people choose the job they mentioned as their dream job? 
    • Is money the most important factor in choosing a job? / Besides money, what else do people value? 

【4】微笑的场合 (Occasion when many people smiled)
Part 2 Describe an occasion when many people were smiling. You should say:
    • When it happened
    • Who you were with
    • What happened
    • And explain why many people were smiling. 
Part 3
    • In what situations do people usually smile? 
    • Why do people smile in photos? 
    • Are people more likely to act driven by emotions or by logic and plans? 
    • Is it a good thing for people to be driven by emotions? 

【5】想见的名人 (Celebrity you want to meet)
Part 2 Describe a celebrity that you would like to meet in person. You should say:
    • Who the person is
    • How you know about this person
    • What this person does
    • And explain why you would like to meet this person. 
Part 3
    • What celebrities do you most often see in the news in your country? 
    • Why do children want to become famous? 
    • Compared to ten years ago, are there more celebrities now or in the past? 
    • Do people need to be talented to be famous nowadays? 
    • Do people like these packaged celebrities or those with genuine talent? 

【6】乐于助人的人 (Person who helps others)
Part 2 Describe someone who often helps other people. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • What kinds of help they usually offer
    • Why they like helping others
    • And explain how this person has influenced you. 
Part 3
    • How can children help their parents at home? 
    • Should children be taught to help others? 
    • Should students do community service? Why? 
    • Do students in your country do volunteer work? 

【7】常用的软件 (App you use)
Part 2 Describe an application (program) you usually use on your phone or computer. You should say:
    • What it is
    • When you started to use it
    • Why you use it often
    • And how you feel about it. 
Part 3
    • What apps are popular in your country? 
    • How do older people and young people use apps differently? 
    • Do you think parents should limit the amount of time children spend on apps? 
    • Why do some people not like using apps? 

【8】喜欢的电影 (Movie you liked)
Part 2 Describe a movie you watched and enjoyed recently. You should say:
    • What the movie is
    • What it is about
    • When you watched it
    • And explain why it is your favorite movie. 
Part 3
    • What kind of movies do people in your country like to watch? 
    • Is it difficult to become an actor? 
    • Which is more important for an actor, acting skills or appearance? 

【9】使用想象力的时刻 (Time you used imagination)
Part 2 Describe a time you needed to use your imagination. You should say:
    • When it was
    • Why you needed to use imagination
    • How difficult or easy it was
    • And explain how you felt about it. 
Part 3
    • What kinds of games that require imagination are popular among children in your country? 
    • What kinds of jobs require imagination? 
    • Which requires more imagination, reading books or watching cartoons? 

【10】感兴趣的单车/摩托/汽车旅行 (Interesting car/bike trip)
Part 2 Describe a bicycle/motorbike/car trip that you think would be interesting. You should say:
    • Where you could go
    • Who you could go with
    • How easy/difficult the trip would be
    • And explain why you think using a bicycle/motorbike/car for this trip would be interesting. 
Part 3
    • Which form of vehicle is more popular in your country, bikes, cars or motorcycles? 
    • What is best thing about public transport where you live? 
    • Why more and more people want to buy cars? 
    • In what ways do people tend to travel today in cities and in the countryside? 
    • Do city planners consider the needs of pedestrians enough? 
    • What impact can it have on a country if it doesn't have an adequate transport system? 

【11】安静的地方 (Quiet place)
Part 2 Describe a place you enjoyed visiting that was very quiet. You should say:
    • Where this place is and why you wanted to visit it
    • Why this place was very quiet
    • What you did there
    • And explain why you enjoyed visiting this place that was very quiet.
Part 3
    • In your country, what quiet places do people like to go?
    • Why do some people don't like quiet places?
    • Can people listen to music while doing something else? 

【12】校外学到东西的人 (Person learned from outside school)
Part 2 Describe a person you know who learned something from others (not a teacher). You should say:
    • Who he/she is
    • How you know him/her
    • What he/she had learned
    • And explain how you feel about him/her.
Part 3
    • What can children learn from parents?
    • Do you think some children are well-behaved because they are influenced by their parents?
    • Is it necessary for adults to learn new things?
    • How can people learn new things? 

【13】经常做计划的人 (Person who often plans)
Part 2 Describe a person who often plans things. You should say:
    • Who he/she is
    • How you know him/her
    • What he/she usually plans about
    • And explain how you feel about him/her.
Part 3
    • What kinds of plans do people usually make?
    • Do you think special events, such as weddings, need to be planned in advance?
    • Do young people need to make plans for their future careers? 

【14】喜欢画画的孩子 (Child who likes drawing)
Part 2 Describe a child who likes drawing or painting. You should say:
    • Who he/she is
    • How you know him/her
    • What he/she often draws or paints
    • And why do you think he/she likes drawing or painting.
Part 3
    • At what age do you think children can start drawing?
    • Why do children draw more than adults?
    • Why do some people prefer visiting galleries and museums instead of looking at art online?
    • Do you think galleries and museums should be free to the public?
    • Why do some people feel inspired after visiting an art gallery or museum?
    • How can art influence people's lives? 

【15】购物的地方 (Place for shopping)
Part 2 Describe a place that people like to go shopping (e.g. shopping centre). You should say:
    • Where it is
    • How often you go there
    • Why do people like to go there shopping
    • And explain how you feel about it.
Part 3
    • Why do people enjoy shopping?
    • Does spending money make people feel happy?
    • What are the differences between shopping in street markets and big shopping malls?
    • What are the differences in the shopping habits of different age groups?
    • What are the differences between shopping online and in-store? 

【16】外国的短暂停留 (Short-term stay abroad)
Part 2 Describe a foreign country you would like to stay or work in for a short period of time. You should say:
    • Which country it is
    • How you knew it
    • What you will do there
    • And explain why you want to stay or work there for a short period of time.
Part 3
    • What kinds of short-term jobs can people do abroad?
    • What kinds of short-term jobs can teenagers do abroad?
    • What can people gain from doing short-term work abroad? 

【17】给别人建议 (Giving advice)
Part 2 Describe a time when you gave advice to others. You should say:
    • When it was
    • To whom you gave the advice
    • What the advice was
    • And explain why you gave the advice.
Part 3
    • Do people usually ask their family members or their friends for advice?
    • Do older people seek advice from younger people?
    • In what situations should people be careful when giving advice to others? 

【18】想拥有的科技产品 (Technology you want)
Part 2 Describe a piece of technology (not a mobile phone) that you would like to have. You should say:
    • What it is
    • How much it is
    • What you will use it for
    • And explain why you would like to own it.
Part 3
    • What technological products do young people use and for what purposes?
    • What are the differences between online communication and face-to-face communication?
    • Can online communication replace face-to-face communication? 

【19】不喜欢的音乐场合 (Music event you didn't enjoy)
Part 2 Describe an event you took part in but you didn't enjoy its music. You should say:
    • When and where it was
    • What the event was about
    • What kind of music it played
    • And explain why you didn't enjoy its music.
Part 3
    • Which kinds of music are popular in your country?
    • Should children receive music education? Why?
    • What are the differences in music preferences between the elderly and the young? 

【20】喜欢看的网络节目 (Online TV show)
Part 2 Describe an online TV program that you like to watch. You should say:
    • What it was
    • When you watch it
    • What it was about
    • And explain why you like to watch it.
Part 3
    • What TV shows are popular in your country now?
    • Do older people and younger people watch the same types of TV shows?
    • What kinds of TV shows tend to become popular?
    • What types of TV shows should parents allow their children to watch?

【21】超预算的购买经历 (Buying something over budget)
Part 2 Describe a time when you bought something that was over your budget. You should say:
    • What you bought
    • Why you wanted to buy it
    • Why it was more expensive than you planned
    • And explain how you felt about it. 
Part 3
    • What do you think young people spend most of their money on? 
    • Do you think it is important to save money? Why? 
    • Do people buy things they don't need? 
    • Is it important to teach children about giving money to support people in need? 
    • Should rich people give some of their money to help other people? 
    • What can people do to support others in mind, apart from giving money to them? 

【22】去过的城市 (City you have been to)
Part 2 Describe a city you have been to. You should say:
    • Where it is
    • What you do there
    • How many times you have been there
    • And explain why you think it is enjoyable to be there. 
Part 3
    • What kinds of things do tourists like to do in cities? 
    • What are the benefits for cities of having lots of tourists? 
    • What are the disadvantages for people living in cities which are popular with tourists? 
    • Why are so many young people attached to city life? 
    • Are cities better for young people than for old people? 
    • How do people improve their quality of lives in cities? 

【23】机智解决问题的人 (Person who solved a problem in a smart way)
Part 2 Describe a person who solved a problem in a smart way. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • What the problem was
    • How he/she solved it
    • And explain why you think he/she did it in a smart way. 
Part 3
    • Do you think children are born smart or they learn to become smart? 
    • How important schools are in helping children become more clever? 
    • Are very clever children usually happy? 
    • Why are some people well-rounded and others only good at one thing? 
    • Why does modern society need talents of all kinds? 
    • Can people become very good at something if they try hard enough? 

【24】鼓励你环保的人 (Person who encouraged you to protect environment)
Part 2 Describe a person who encouraged you to protect the environment or nature. You should say:
    • Who the person is
    • What they told you or did
    • How it influenced you
    • And explain how you felt about their advice or actions. 
Part 3
    • How should parents teach their children to protect nature environment? 
    • What can schools do to educate children about protecting nature environment? 
    • Should governments introduce laws to protect nature environment? 

【25】鼓励别人做不愿意做的事 (Encouraged someone to do something they didn't want to do)
Part 2 Describe a time when you encouraged someone to do something that he/she didn't want to do. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • What you encourage him/her to do
    • How he/she reacted
    • And explain why you encouraged him/her to do it. 
Part 3
    • How can leaders encourage their employees? 
    • When should parents encourage their children? 
    • What kind of encouragement should parents give? 
    • Do you think some people are better than others at persuading? 

保留题

【1】想拥有的朋友的好习惯 (A good habit a friend has)
Part 2 
Describe a good habit a friend has that you would like to develop. You should say:
    • Who the friend is
    • What the habit is
    • What made you notice this good habit
    • And explain why you would like to develop this habit.
Part 3
    • What are some examples of good habits that children need to learn? 
    • How should parents help children to develop good habits? 
    • Why do children sometimes pick up bad habits? 
    • How do the habits of adults change as they grow older? 
    • What are the benefits of having a daily routine? 
    • Do you agree that people who have fixed routines are not creative? 

【2】尝试新活动的兴奋经历 (Exciting experience of trying a new activity)
Part 2 
Describe an occasion when you felt excited about trying an activity for the first time. You should say:
    • What activity you did
    • Where and when you did this
    • How easy or difficult it was to do
    • And explain what was exciting about trying this activity for the first time.
Part 3
    • What are the benefits for people of trying new activities? 
    • Why do people often feel worried about trying new activities? 
    • What kinds of help do people usually need when trying new activities? 
    • Why are some people more willing to try dangerous activities, such as extreme sports, than others? 
    • What are the disadvantages of thinking too much about how risky a new activity might be? 
    • Do you agree that people learn more from their mistakes than from their successes? 

【3】有趣的传统故事 (Interesting traditional story)
Part 2 
Describe a traditional story that you think is interesting (e.g. a fairy tale, a legend, a story about heroes). You should say:
    • What the traditional story is about
    • How you know it
    • How you felt when you first read or heard it
    • And explain why you think this traditional story is interesting.
Part 3
    • What kinds of stories do children usually enjoy? 
    • Why do some children like to listen to a story before going to sleep? 
    • Do you think it is more enjoyable for children to read stories or to write them? 
    • Do you agree that films need to have a good story to be successful? 
    • How popular are films or movies that are based on true stories? 
    • Do you agree that films based on famous books are never as good as the books themselves? 

【4】想再去的长途旅行 (Long journey you want to make again)
Part 2 
Describe a long journey you made that you would like to make again. You should say:
    • Where you went on the journey
    • When you made this journey
    • What you saw and did
    • And explain why you would like to make this journey again.
Part 3
    • Why do some people like to make long journeys? 
    • Do you think airplanes are the best way to travel very long distances? 
    • What are the differences between traveling in a group and traveling alone? 
    • What preparations do people need to make before travelling abroad? 
    • Why do some people prefer to travel in their own country rather than in other countries? 
    • How have people's attitudes to travelling abroad changed in recent years? 

【5】和朋友的一次晚餐 (Dinner with friends)
Part 2 
Describe a dinner with friends that you enjoyed. You should say:
    • Who organized the dinner and why
    • What kinds of food you ate
    • What you talked about at the dinner
    • And explain why this dinner with friends was enjoyable.
Part 3
    • Why do some families not eat together nowadays? 
    • How often do people eat with classmates or work colleagues? 
    • What are the advantages and disadvantages of people of different ages eating together? 
    • Why is food often an important part of special occasions? 
    • What are the advantages of eating at home compared to eating in a restaurant on special occasions? 
    • Do you think the kinds of food people eat on special occasions are changing? 

【6】迷路 (Getting lost)
Part 2 
Describe a time when you got lost in a town or city. You should say:
    • Where you were and when
    • Why you lost your way
    • What you did to find your way
    • And explain how you felt about getting lost in this town or city.
Part 3
    • How do most people usually get from one place to another in cities in your country? 
    • Do you think it was easier to get around in cities in the past than it is today? 
    • Do you think building more roads would make it easier for people to travel around in cities? 
    • Do you agree that children should learn how to read paper maps in school? 
    • What are the advantages and disadvantages of using electronic maps, such as GPS? 
    • Do you agree with the view that it is impossible to teach someone to have better map-reading skills? 

【7】等待特殊事情 (Waiting for something special)
Part 2 
Describe a time when you had to wait for something special to happen. You should say:
    • What this special thing was
    • Why you had to wait for it
    • What you did while you were waiting
    • And explain how you felt about waiting for this special thing to happen.
Part 3
    • What are some everyday situations when people have to wait? 
    • Why do many people really dislike waiting? 
    • Do you think adults are better at waiting than children? 
    • Do you think people had to be more patient in the past than nowadays? 
    • Is it always a good thing to be a patient person? 
    • Do you agree that people can train themselves to be more patient? 

【8】第一次用外语交流 (First time using a foreign language)
Part 2 
Describe the first time you had to communicate in a foreign language. You should say:
    • When and where it happened
    • Who you communicated with
    • What you talked or wrote about
    • And explain how you felt about using this foreign language for the first time.
Part 3
    • Why do people learn a foreign language? 
    • Do you agree that speaking in a foreign language is easier than reading it? 
    • Do you think it is necessary to write a foreign language well nowadays? 
    • What is the best age for children to start learning a foreign language at school? 
    • How can teachers make learning a language more interesting for students? 
    • How valuable are school trips to countries where the foreign language is spoken? 

【9】打坏家里的某个东西 (Breaking something at home)
Part 2 
Describe an occasion when you accidentally broke an object in your home. You should say:
    • What the object was
    • How you accidentally broke it
    • What you did with the broken object
    • And explain how you felt about breaking this object in your home.
Part 3
    • Why do people break things? 
    • What kinds of everyday objects do people often accidentally break? 
    • Do you agree that older people try to repair objects more often than younger people do? 
    • What types of products are usually made in factories? 
    • Do you think everyone should learn how to repair everyday objects? 
    • Which do you think are better quality: products made in factories or products made by hand? 

【10】想参观的有趣建筑 (Interesting building to visit)
Part 2 
Describe an interesting building that you would like to visit. You should say:
    • Where this interesting building is
    • How you know about this building
    • What you already know about it
    • And explain how you would feel if you visited this interesting building.
Part 3
    • What kinds of buildings do tourists usually enjoy visiting in your country? 
    • Do you think tourists should always pay to visit important buildings, such as historical sites or museums? 
    • Why do many people prefer to live in newer buildings rather than older ones? 
    • Do you agree that visiting buildings is the best way for tourists to learn about a place? 
    • Do you think houses or flats/apartments are better homes for people in cities? 
    • Why might some people want to build their own homes instead of buying one? 

【11】感兴趣的科学领域 (Area of science)
Part 2 
Describe an area of science (physics, biology, psychology, etc.) that you are interested in. You should say:
    • What area of science it is
    • How you first became interested in it
    • How you have developed this interest
    • And explain why you find this area of science interesting. 
Part 3
    • How popular are science subjects at school? 
    • Do you think it is important for everyone to learn about science at school? 
    • How can museums help young people understand science better? 
    • In what ways does science affect our daily lives? 
    • What do you think is the most important scientific invention in the last hundred years? 
    • Do you agree that individuals have a responsibility to contribute to scientific research? 

【12】好朋友 (Good friend)
Part 2 
Describe someone who has been a good friend to you. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • Where and when you met this person
    • What this person is like
    • And explain how this person has been a good friend to you. 
Part 3
    • Why do people need friends? 
    • Do you agree that having a lot of friends is better than having a few close friends? 
    • How do children usually make friends? 
    • What are the benefits of having friends of different ages? 
    • How are friendships at work different from friendships outside work? 
    • Do you think it is possible for employees to be good friends with their boss? 

【13】想多了解的野生动物 (Wild animal)
Part 2 
Describe a wild animal you would like to learn more about. You should say:
    • Which wild animal it is
    • What you already know about it
    • How you would like to learn more about it
    • And explain why you would like to learn more about this wild animal. 
Part 3
    • In what ways can children learn about wildlife? 
    • Why do children often enjoy learning about wildlife? 
    • How important is it for children to learn about wildlife at school? 
    • Do you agree that it is essential to protect different wildlife species and their habitats? 
    • Why might people be more interested in protecting some species of wildlife, such as polar bears, tigers, or pandas, than other species? 
    • Do you think tourism has more positive or negative effects on the protection of wildlife species, such as lions, elephants, or sharks? 

【14】想提升的天赋 (Talent to improve)
Part 2 
Describe a natural talent you have that you would like to improve. You should say:
    • What your talent is
    • How you discovered you have this talent
    • How you feel about having this talent
    • And explain why you would like to improve this talent. 
Part 3
    • Do you think it is possible to see talent in very young children? 
    • How can parents help to develop talents in their children? 
    • Do you agree that some parents put too much pressure on their children to develop their talents? 
    • How useful is it to have an artistic talent such as painting, singing, or dancing? 
    • Why are talent shows on television or online so popular nowadays? 
    • Do you think people with an artistic talent have a responsibility to develop it? 

【15】优质服务 (Good service)
Part 2 
Describe a time when you received very good service from a shop/store or a company. You should say:
    • Which shop/store or company it was
    • What service you received
    • Why you thought this service was so good
    • And explain how you felt after receiving such good service. 
Part 3
    • Do you think the most expensive shops or stores usually provide the best service? 
    • Why is it that service in shops or stores is sometimes not very good? 
    • How important do you think good service is to most customers? 
    • How is dealing with customers face-to-face different from dealing with them on the phone? 
    • What personal qualities do customer service staff need in order to handle complaints well? 
    • Do you think working in customer service would be an enjoyable job? 

【16】有创造力的人 (Creative person)
Part 2 
Describe a creative person whose work you admire. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • What you know about this person
    • What you consider his or her greatest success
    • And explain why you admire this person's work. 
Part 3
    • What are the benefits for children of learning to paint and draw at school? 
    • Should all children learn to play a musical instrument? 
    • Do you agree that using computers helps children to be more creative? 
    • What kinds of jobs require people to be creative? 
    • Is it important to present the news via visual media [e.g. film, photography] nowadays? 
    • Why do cartoons appeal to so many adults nowadays? 

【17】喜欢在家族企业工作的人 (Family business)
Part 2 
Describe a person you know who enjoys working for a family business. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • How you know him/her
    • What kind of family business he/she works for
    • And explain why you think this person enjoys working for a family business. 
Part 3
    • What kinds of family businesses are common where you live? 
    • What are the advantages of working for a family business? 
    • Why do you think some family businesses are more successful than others? 
    • Why do some people decide to start their own business? 
    • What kinds of problems might people face when starting their own business? 
    • Do you agree that children should be taught how to start a business when they are still at school? 

【18】家中老物件 (Old object)
Part 2 
Describe something important to you that your family has had for a long time. You should say:
    • What this thing is
    • What it looks like
    • How long your family has had this thing
    • And explain why this thing is important to you. 
Part 3
    • What kinds of things from the past do families in your country often keep? 
    • How are the things younger people like to keep different from what older people prefer to keep? 
    • How do museums teach people about history? 
    • Do you agree that keeping family possessions helps people connect with the past? 
    • How can technology make history more interesting? 
    • Do you agree that knowing about history helps people understand the present? 

【19】停电 (Electricity went off)
Part 2 
Describe an occasion when the electricity suddenly went off. You should say:
    • When and where it happened
    • What you were doing
    • How long the electricity went off for
    • And explain how you felt when the electricity suddenly went off. 
Part 3
    • In what ways do people usually use electricity in their homes? 
    • Do you think electricity is too expensive nowadays? 
    • Was it difficult for people in the past to live without electricity? 
    • Do you think electric bicycles will ever replace ordinary bicycles? 
    • Which do you think is better: vehicles that use electricity or vehicles that use petrol? 
    • Do you agree that it will be easy for governments to manage the process of changing to electric vehicles? 

【20】亲近大自然的场所 (Place to enjoy nature)
Part 2 
Describe an outdoor place where you go to enjoy nature (e.g. a park or a beach). You should say:
    • Where this place is
    • How often you go to this place
    • What you usually do there
    • And explain why you go to this outdoor place to enjoy nature. 
Part 3
    • What kinds of things do children like doing outdoors in nature? 
    • Do you think children spend enough time outdoors in nature nowadays? 
    • Which is better for children: living in a city or living in the countryside? 
    • Do you think recycling is important for protecting nature? 
    • Do you agree that having a vegetarian diet helps to protect nature? 
    • To what extent can an individual’s actions really help to protect nature? 

【21】敬佩的运动员 (Admired sportsperson)
Part 2 Describe a famous sportsperson you admire. You should say:
    • Who this person is
    • What his/her achievement is
    • How you know him/her
    • And explain why you admire this sportsperson.
Part 3
    • What sports do people in your country usually enjoy?
    • Why do people try new sports?
    • How important is it for people to find a sport they enjoy?
    • Do you think all students should do sport at school?

【22】收到道歉 (Apology received)
Part 2 Describe a time when someone apologized to you. You should say:
    • Who apologized to you
    • When it happened
    • Why this person apologized
    • And explain how you felt after this person apologized.
Part 3
    • In what situations do people usually say sorry in your country?
    • Do you agree that people often say sorry when they don’t really mean it?
    • Why is it important for people to be aware of how their behaviour affects others?
    • Why do some people find it hard to say sorry?

【23】童年玩具 (Childhood toy)
Part 2 Describe a toy that you enjoyed playing with when you were a child. You should say:
    • What it was
    • How you got this toy
    • When and where you played with it
    • And explain why you enjoyed playing with this toy.
Part 3
    • What are the most popular toys for children in your country?
    • How are the toys children played with in the past different from the toys children play with now?
    • Do you think children spend too much time playing games on screens these days?

【24】社交媒体趣事 (Interesting thing from social media)
Part 2 Describe a time when you found out something very interesting through social media. You should say:
    • When it was
    • Where you were
    • What you found out
    • And explain why this information was so interesting to you.
Part 3
    • Why do so many people use social media?
    • Do you agree that social media is the best way to make new friends?
    • Do you think everyone needs to be on social media nowadays?

【25】有用的书 (Book found useful)
Part 2 Describe a book you have read that you found useful. You should say:
    • What the book was about
    • When and where you read the book
    • Why you decided to read the book
    • And explain why you found this book useful.
Part 3
    • What types of books do people your age usually enjoy reading?
    • Do you think older people or younger people read more books?
    • Do you think it is better to read a story in a book than to watch it as a film?
    • How has the internet changed the way people use libraries?
